---
title: "Codesign for Resilience and Performance"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/Navid_TCNS2023
excerpt: "We present two optimization approaches to minimize the impact of sensor falsification attacks in linear time-invariant systems controlled by estimate-based feedback. We accomplish this by finding observer and controller gain matrices that minimize outer ellipsoidal bounds that contain the reachable set of attack-induced states. To avoid trivial solutions, we involve a covariance-based ∥H∥2 closed-loop performance constraint. This exposes a tradeoff between system security and closed-loop performance and demonstrates that only small concessions in performance can lead to large gains in our reachability-based security metric. We provide both a nonlinear optimization based on geometric sums and a fully convexified approach formulated with linear matrix inequalities. We demonstrate the effectiveness of these tools on two numerical case studies."
date: 2022-12-16
venue: 'IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/9991091'
citation: 'Hashemi, Navid, and Justin Ruths. "Co-design for resilience and performance." IEEE Transactions on Control of Network Systems (2022).'
---

We present two optimization approaches to minimize the impact of sensor falsification attacks in linear time-invariant systems controlled by estimate-based feedback. We accomplish this by finding observer and controller gain matrices that minimize outer ellipsoidal bounds that contain the reachable set of attack-induced states. To avoid trivial solutions, we involve a covariance-based ∥H∥2 closed-loop performance constraint. This exposes a tradeoff between system security and closed-loop performance and demonstrates that only small concessions in performance can lead to large gains in our reachability-based security metric. We provide both a nonlinear optimization based on geometric sums and a fully convexified approach formulated with linear matrix inequalities. We demonstrate the effectiveness of these tools on two numerical case studies.
